---
layout: post
title:  "Computer"
date:   2020-07-16 08:30:00 +0100
---

# Problems

Unfortunately, I am unable to connect to my computer any more. This could be due to a power cut which shut it down completely. The alternative will be to run the scripts on the BlueCrystal4 super computer provided by the university.

## Preparations

The script does not require any major modifications since it's already working in parallel and arguments provide an easy way to change configuration. The major libraries installed are mujoco_py and pytorch. Mujoco simulator requires a license key that is linked to a computer.

### Super computer ID
Since the super computer is made of multiple computers connected together the job submitted will not always run on the same clusters. This, unfortunately, makes it impossible for a license key to be used. 

## Alternatives

One alternative would be to look for a similar simulator which is free or even open source. Unfortunately, this will require a lot of modifications on the current environment. This is because the original pick and place environment provided by the `gym` library is using mujoco at its core. The environment settings and possible commands will have to be ported.

The "Bullet" physics engine comes up a lot in discussions as a free alternative to Mujoco. However, in "Simulation Tools for Model-Based Robotics: Comparison of Bullet, Havok, MuJoCo, ODE and PhysX" [1], the simulator of choice for grasping is ODE. Luckily, this engine is free to use. However, I cannot find a Python compatible version. On the other hand, Bullet was built for Python.

This will take a lot of time. 

1. Erez, T., Tassa, Y. and Todorov, E., 2015, May. Simulation tools for model-based robotics: Comparison of bullet, havok, mujoco, ode and physx. In 2015 IEEE international conference on robotics and automation (ICRA) (pp. 4397-4404). IEEE.
